BLISTERING ROUND OF QUESTIONS
FROM LAWMAKERS TODAY.
SHE EXPRESSED REMORSE, BUT
DIDN'T EXPLAIN WHY THE COMPANY
TOOK SO LONG TO ALERT THE PUBLIC
ABOUT DEADLY DEFECTS IN MILLIONS
OF CARS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, A
SENATE REPORT CHARGES THE C.I.A.
MISLED THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
PUBLIC ABOUT ITS HARSH
INTERROGATION PROGRAM.
CONCEALING BRUTAL METHODS AND
OVERSTATING RESULTS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE PUSH IN MANY
STATES TO EXPAND PRE-SCHOOL, AND
TO MAKE SURE THE PLACES THAT DO
HAVE IT ARE OFFERING A QUALITY
EDUCATION.
>> MOST FOUR-YEAR-OLDS WHO GO TO
PRESCHOOL PROGRAMS, GO TO
PROGRAMS THAT AREN'T GOOD.
THE STANDARDS ARE SO LOW, ITS
QUESTIONABLE WHETHER YOU SHOULD
CALL IT A PRESCHOOL EDUCATION.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
ANNOUNCED THIS AFTERNOON THAT
7.1 MILLION PEOPLE  SIGNED UP
FOR HEALTH INSURANCE, BEFORE
LAST NIGHT'S DEADLINE.
THAT TOPS THE ADMINISTRATION'S
ORIGINAL GOAL, AND IT CAME
DESPITE GLITCHES ON THE
healthcare.gov WEBSITE.
THE PRESIDENT MARKED THE
ACHIEVEMENT WITH AN EVENT IN THE
WHITE HOUSE ROSE GARDEN.
>> MILLIONS OF OUR FELLOW
CITIZENS KNOW THE ECONOMIC
SECURITY OF HEALTH INSURANCE WHO
DIDN'T JUST A FEW YEARS AGO.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING TO BE PROUD
OF.
REGARDLESS OF YOUR POLITICS OR
YOUR FEELINGS ABOUT ME OR YOUR
FEELINGS ABOUT THIS LAW, THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S GOOD FOR OUR
ECONOMY.
IT'S GOOD FOR OUR COUNTRY.
THERE'S NO GOOD REASON TO GO
BACK.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS NO
IMMEDIATE WORD ON HOW MANY OF
THE ENROLLEES WERE PREVIOUSLY
UNINSURED, OR HOW MANY HAVE PAID
THEIR PREMIUMS.
AND BEYOND THOSE QUESTIONS,
REPUBLICANS CHARGED AGAIN THE
HEALTH CARE LAW IS DOING MORE
HARM THAN GOOD.
SENATE MINORITY LEADER MITCH
MCCONNELL.
>> ALL ACROSS THE COUNTRY OUR
CONSTITUENTS ARE HAVING AN
UNPLEASANT INTERACTION WITH
OBAMACARE WHETHER THEY CAN SIGN
UP FOR A POLICY OR NOT.
WHAT THEY'RE DISCOVERING IS OF
COURSE HIGHER PREMIUMS, HIGHER
DEDUCTIBLES.
MANY OF THEM ARE LOSING THEIR
JOBS AND SO, IT IS REALLY A
CATASTROPHE FOR THE COUNTRY,
BOTH FOR THE HEALTH CARE
PROVIDERS AND THE CONSUMERS.
>> Woodruff: THE TOTAL NUMBER OF
2014 ENROLLEES IS EXPECTED TO GO
HIGHER STILL.
OFFICIALS HAVE SAID APPLICANTS
WHO BEGAN THE ENROLLMENT PROCESS
BUT WEREN'T ABLE TO COMPLETE IT,
WILL LIKELY QUALIFY FOR AN
EXTENSION.
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN
SEVEN YEARS, NO AMERICAN TROOPS
DIED IN AFGHANISTAN DURING AN
ENTIRE MONTH.
CASUALTIES HAVE BEEN DECLINING
AS THE SIZE OF THE U.S. FORCE
DWINDLES TO 33,000
THE PENTAGON SAID TODAY THE LAST
MONTH WITH NO U.S. FATALITIES IN
THE AFGHAN WAR WAS JANUARY OF
2007.
THE OFFICIAL DEATH TOLL FROM THE
WASHINGTON STATE MUDSLIDE
REACHED 27 TODAY, WHILE THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE MISSING WAS
LOWERED TO 22.
MEANWHILE, GOVERNOR JAY INSLEE
REPORTED THAT DAMAGE FROM THE
SLIDE HAS REACHED
$10 MILLION.
HE ASKED FOR A FEDERAL DISASTER
DECLARATION.
BAD WEATHER AGAIN HINDERED THE
SEARCH FOR THE MISSING MALAYSIA
AIRLINES FLIGHT.
ELEVEN PLANES RETURNED TO THEIR
BASE IN PERTH, AUSTRALIA WITHOUT
FINDING ANYTHING.
AND THE HEAD OF THE SEARCH
EFFORT WARNED, IT COULD, "DRAG
ON FOR A LONG TIME."
JOHN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS WENT OUT WITH
ONE OF THE PLANES, AND FILED
THIS REPORT.
>> Reporter: PERSONNEL AND
PLANES FROM FIVE NATIONS HAVE
GATHERED HERE.
AND THE RECOVERY OF THE STRICKEN
JET-LINER, NOW THEIR COLLECTIVE
RESPONSIBILITY.
BUT THEY'VE MADE LITTLE PROGRESS
STILL, NOBODY'S GIVING UP.
CREW MEMBERS FROM THIS
AUSTRALIAN ORION HAVE ALREADY
MADE EIGHT ATTEMPTS TO FIND
DEBRIS FROM FLIGHT 370.
YET ALL THEY'VE FOUND SO FAR IS
BAD WEATHER AND PLENTY OF FALSE
LEADS.
>> THERE'S BEEN MULTIPLE
SIGHTINGS OF OBJECTS, IT'S JUST,
THE PROBLEM IS THEY HAVEN'T BEEN
ABLE TO CONFIRM WHETHER OR NOT
THEY'RE RELATED TO THE AIRCRAFT.
AND THAT'S THE DIFFICULTY WE
HAVE.
>> Reporter: FLIGHT LIEUTENANT
DAWSON PROVIDED AN EXAMPLE, THEY
SAW THIS YESTERDAY.
>> NO NEITHER CAN  I.
YOU'VE GOT TO TRY AN ID THEM,
BUT IT'S A TRADE OFF BETWEEN
IDENTIFYING SOMETHING AND
CONTINUING WITH THE SEARCH AS
WELL.
>> Reporter: THESE ARE NOT IDEAL
CONDITIONS TO CONDUCT A SEARCH
OPERATION.
IN FACT, THE PILOT'S JUST CALLED
THE WEATHER "SHOCKING."
THE VISIBILITY IS POOR.
THE SWELL IS HIGH.
AND THAT DOESN'T MAKE IT EASY TO
FIND DEBRIS.
IT'S A PRETTY BUMPY RIDE, AS
WELL.
THE AIRCRAFT BOUNCED AROUND 350
FEET ABOVE THE WATER, AND THE
CREW DID THEIR BEST, TRYING TO
PICK OUT OBJECTS ON THE SURFACE,
BUT THEY DIDN'T SEE MUCH, A FEW
FISHING BUOYS, AND A POD OF
WHALES, ONCE AGAIN, THERE WAS NO
SIGN OF MH370.
THEIR WORK WAS PAINSTAKING AND
PROFESSIONAL BUT 10 SQUARDRON'S
LAST MTEISSION OFFERED LITTLE IN
RETURN.
NO DEBRIS NO EVIDENCE OF A
BOEING TRIPLE SEVEN THAT'S
DISAPPEARED WITHOUT A TRACE.
STILL, THE AUSTRALIANS AND THEIR
ORION WILL BE BACK UP THERE
TOMORROW.
FOR THE FIRST TIME, EVACUEES
FROM THE FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR
DISASTER IN JAPAN WILL BE
ALLOWED TO LIVE IN THEIR FORMER
HOMES.
MORE THAN 100,000 PEOPLE FLED
THE 12-MILE HOT ZONE AROUND THE
PLANT AFTER AN EARTHQUAKE AND
TSUNAMI WRECKED THREE NUCLEAR
REACTORS IN MARCH OF 2011.
AS OF TODAY, 357 PEOPLE WERE
ALLOWED TO GO BACK, TO AN AREA
WHERE RADIATION LEVELS ARE
DEEMED SAFE.
IT WAS UNCLEAR HOW MANY WOULD
DECIDE TO MAKE THE MOVE.
N.A.T.O. MEMBER COUNTRIES
ORDERED A HALT TODAY TO ALL
CIVILIAN AND MILITARY
COOPERATION WITH RUSSIA.
THEY ALSO AGREED TO CONSIDER
SENDING MORE ARMS AND TROOPS TO
PARTS OF EASTERN EUROPE.
IT'S A REACTION TO RUSSIA'S
ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA AND TROOP
BUILDUP NEAR EASTERN UKRAINE.
MEANWHILE, MOSCOW SHARPLY
INCREASED NATURAL GAS PRICES FOR
UKRAINE.
THE MOVE PUTS NEW PRESSURE ON
THE FINANCIALLY STRUGGLING
NATION.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, U.S. AUTO
SALES PICKED UP LAST MONTH.
CHRYSLER REPORTED A 13% INCREASE
IN SALES.
FORD, TOYOTA AND NISSAN ALL
REPORTED SINGLE-DIGIT GAINS.
GENERAL MOTORS WAS UP 4%,
DESPITE A SERIES OF SAFETY
RECALLS.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 75 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,532.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 69 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,268.
THE S-AND-P 500 ADDED 13, TO
FINISH AT 1,885.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
G.M.'s C.E.O. FACES QUESTIONS
OVER DEADLY DEFECTS; ALLEGATIONS
THE CIA HID FACTS ABOUT IT'S
HAR INTSHERROGATION PROGRAM; THE
PUSH FOR QUALITY PRE-SCHOOL
PROGRAMS; A LOOK INSIDE SYRIA'S
CIVIL WAR; PLUS, NEW HURDLES TO
A MIDEAST PEACE DEAL.
>> Ifill: GENERAL MOTORS C.E.O.
MARY BARRA APPEARED BEFORE A
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE TODAY
FOR THE FIRST TIME TO ANSWER
SOME OF THE MANY QUESTIONS ABOUT
A SERIES OF MAJOR RECALLS.
SHE FACED A GRILLING AT TIMES.
ONE CONGRESSMAN EVEN TOLD HER,
"WE DON'T TRUST THE COMPANY
RIGHT NOW."
>> BETWEEN 2003 AND 2014, GM
LEARNED HUNDREDS OF REPORTS OF
IGNITION SWITCH PROBLEMS THROUGH
CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS, WARRANTY
CLAIMS, LAWSUITS, PRESS
COVERAGE, FIELD REPORTS, AND
EVEN MORE INTERNAL
INVESTIGATIONS.
>> WITH ALL THAT INFORMATION
AVAILABLE, WHY DID IT TAKE SO
LONG TO ISSUE THE RECALL?
>> Ifill: SENIOR LAWMAKERS FROM
BOTH PARTIES MADE CLEAR, THEY
WANT ANSWERS.
AT ISSUE: WHY G.M. TOOK SO LONG,
YEARS, TO FIX VEHICLES WITH
FAULTY IGNITION SWITCHES.
THEY'RE NOW LINKED TO AIR BAG
FAILURES AND AT LEAST 13 DEATHS.
G.M.'S C.E.O., MARY BARRA, HAS
BEEN ON THE JOB JUST SINCE
JANUARY.
>> SITTING HERE TODAY, I CANNOT
TELL YOU WHY IT TOOK YEARS FOR A
SAFETY DEFECT TO BE ANNOUNCED IN
THAT PROGRAM, BUT I CAN TELL YOU
THAT WE WILL FIND OUT, AS SOON
AS LEARNED ABOUT THE PROBLEM, WE
ACTED WITHOUT HESITATION.
WE TOLD THE WORLD WE HAD A
PROBLEM THAT NEEDED TO BE FIXED.
WE DID SO BECAUSE WHATEVER
MISTAKES WERE MADE IN THE PAST,
WE WILL NOT SHIRK FROM OUR
RESPONSIBILITIES NOW AND IN THE
FUTURE.
>> Ifill: G.M. COMPANY DOCUMENTS
INDICATE THE AUTOMAKER KNEW OF
THE PROBLEM AS FAR BACK AS 2001,
IN CHEVROLET COBALTS, SATURN
IONS AND OTHER MODELS.
RECALLS FINALLY BEGAN IN
FEBRUARY, AND THE TOTAL NUMBER
OF AFFECTED VEHICLES HAS NOW
REACHED 2.6 MILLION.
EVEN MORE RECALLS ARE UNDERWAY
FOR OTHER DEFECTS.
BUT BARRA ACKNOWLEDGED, THAT'S
FAR TOO LATE FOR SOME.
>> TODAY'S G.M. WILL DO THE
RIGHT THING.
THAT BEGINS WITH MY SINCERE
APOLOGIES TO EVERYONE WHO HAS
BEEN AFFECTED BY THIS RECALL
ESPECIALLY TO THE FAMILIES AND
FRIENDS OF THOSE WHO LOST THEIR
LIVES OR WERE INJURED.
I AM DEEPLY SORRY.
>> Ifill: BARRA VOWED THAT AN
INTERNAL  INVESTIGATION WILL
FIND THE FACTS, BUT COMMITTEE
MEMBERS PRESSED FOR DETAILS.
>> AS FAR BACK AS 2004, G.M.
CONDUCTED PROBLEM RESOLUTION
TRACKING INQUIRY AFTER IT
LEARNED OF INCIDENT THAT KEY
MOVED OUT OF RUN CONDITION, IS
THAT CORRECT?
>> YES.
>> THANK YOU, NOW AFTER THE PRTS
INQUIRY ONE ENGINEER ADVISED
AGAINST FURTHER ACTION BECAUSE
THERE WAS QUOTE NO ACCEPTABLE
BUSINESS CASE TO PROVIDE
RESOLUTION AT P.R.T.S. WAS
CLOSED.
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> IF THAT IS TRUE THAT IS A
VERY DISTURBING FACT.
THAT IS NOT THE WAY WE MAKE
DECISIONS.
>> Ifill: CONGRESSWOMAN DEGETTE
SAID G.M.'S OWN DOCUMENTS SHOWED
A DEFECTIVE SPRING IN THE
IGNITION ASSEMBLIES WOULD HAVE
COST 57 CENTS.
THE COMMITTEE ALSO CALLED DAVID
FRIEDMAN, ACTING HEAD OF THE
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION.
THE AGENCY FIRST  HEARD
COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE G.M.
VEHICLES IN 2005.
>> SOME OF THAT INFORMATION DID
RAISE CONCERNS ABOUT AIR BAG
NON-DEPLOYMENTS.
SO IN 2007, WE CONVENED AN
EXPERT PANEL TO REVIEW THE DATA.
OUR CONSUMER COMPLAINT DATA ON
INJURY CRASHES WITH AIR BAG
NON-DENOIMENTS SHOWED NEITHER
THE COBALT NOR THE ION STOOD OUT
WHEN COMPARED TO OTHER VEHICLES.
>> Ifill: FRIEDMAN POINTED THE
FINGER AT GM, SAYING IT WITHHELD
SIGNIFICANT DETAILS FOR YEARS.
BUT HIS TESTIMONY DREW FIRE.
>> WHAT SPECIFICALLY DID
N.H.T.S.A. ASK G.M.
DID YOU ASK WHY WOULD AN AIR BAG
NOT DEPLOY IN YOUR CAR?
>> I DON'T HAVE A RECORD OF
THAT.
I KNOW OUR TEAM BROUGHT IT UP
BUT NOT THAT SPECIFIC QUESTION.
>> Ifill: THE QUESTIONS AND
ANSWERS PLAYED OUT BEFORE FAMILY
MEMBERS OF THE 13 VICTIMS.
THEY HAD EARLIER PUSHED FOR
ANSWERS ON THE STEPS OF CAPITOL.
KEN REIMER AND HIS WIFE JANE
LOST THEIR DAUGHTER NATASHA IN A
2005 CHEVY COBALT ACCIDENT.
>> THE ACCIDENT REPORT SHOWS
THAT SPEED WAS NOT A FACTOR.
WEATHER WAS NOT A FACTOR.
NOR ROAD CONDITIONS OR TRAFFIC.
THE IGNITION SYSTEM WAS FOUND IN
THE ACCESSORY POSITION BY
ACCIDENT INVESTIGATORS.
NONE OF THIS EVER HAD TO HAPPEN.
IT COULD HAVE BEEN EASILY
ADDRESSED AND CORRECTED.
>> Ifill: LAURA CHRISTIAN'S 16
YEAR OLD DAUGHTER AMBER MARIE
ROSE ALSO DIED IN A 2005 CRASH.
>> OUR DAUGHTERS, SONS, SISTERS,
BROTHERS, MOTHERS, FATHERS,
WIVES AND HUSBANDS ARE GONE
BECAUSE THEY WERE A COST OF
DOING BUSINESS G.M.'S STYLE.
CORPORATE EXECUTIVES MADE A
DECISION THAT FIGHTING THE
PROBLEM WAS CHEAPER AND EASIER
THAN FIXING THE PROBLEM.
>> Ifill: G.M.'S BARRA MET WITH
THE FAMILIES YESTERDAY, AND
AFTER THE HEARING, SHE
PROMISED AGAIN THE AUTO MAKER
WILL MEET ITS OBLIGATIONS.
>> WE WERE DEFINITELY MOVING TO
A CULTURE FOCUSED ON THE
CONSUMER, FOCUSED ON THE
CUSTOMER, FOCUSED ON HIGH
QUALITY AND SAFETY AND THAT'S MY
DIRECTION AND THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
DOING TODAY.
>> Ifill: BARRA DID NOT SAY WHEN
G.M.'S INTERNAL PROBE WILL
CONCLUDE.
IT'S BEEN REPORTED THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT IS ALSO LOOKING INTO
THE MATTER.
BOTH MARY BARRA AND DAVID
FRIEDMAN WILL TESTIFY BEFORE A
SENATE COMMITTEE TOMORROW.
FOR MORE ON WHAT CAME OUT OF
TODAY'S HEARING, WE TURN AGAIN
TO DAVID SHEPARDSON, WHO COVERS
THE AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY FOR THE
DETROIT NEWS.
AND JOAN CLAYBROOK, THE
PRESIDENT EMERITUS OF PUBLIC
CITIZEN, WHO'S BEEN WORKING WITH
SOME OF THE VICTIMS' FAMILIES.
SHE'S ALSO A FORMER
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION.
DAVID SHEPARDSON, WE HEARD MARY
BARRA SAY NOT ONCE BUT SEVERAL
TIMES TODAY THAT TODAY'S G.M.
WOULD NOT DO -- WOULD DO THE
RIGHT THING.
WHAT DID YESTERDAY'S G.M. DO?
WHAT WAS THE CULTURE SHE WAS
TALKING ABOUT WHICH LED TO THIS?
>> WELL, SHE FOUND HERSELF IN
THE POSITION OF BASICALLY
DISAVOWING AND REJECTING MANY OF
THE DECISIONS G.M. MADE, YOU
KNOW, AROUND 2005.
SHE WAS PRESENTED WITH E-MAILS
THAT SHOWED THE COMPANY HAD
OPTED NOT TO IMPROVE THE
IGNITION SWITCHES, IN ONE CASE
SAYING THE AMOUNT THE COMPANY
WOULD SAVE IN WARRANTY COSTS,
ONLY ABOUT 10 TO 15 CENTS PER
SWITCH, WAS NOT AS MUCH AS THE
90 CENTS PER SWITCH IT WOULD
HAVE COST TO MAKE THE CHANGE.
SHE SAID THE NEW G.M. DOES NOT
PUT A COST ON SAFETY, WHATEVER
IT TAKES THEY'RE GOING TO FIX
CARS BUT, YOU KNOW, IN THE FACE
OF THESE DOCUMENTS SHE HAD
REALLY LITTLE CHOICE BUT TO SAY
THIS IS NOT ACCEPTABLE TODAY.
>> Ifill: AND SHE SAID
REPEATEDLY SHE COULDN'T ANSWER
THE QUESTION BECAUSE IT'S STILL
UNDER INVESTIGATION, RIGHT?
>> AND THAT ONLY WENT SO FAR
WITH THE COMMITTEE AND THE
SENATE TOMORROW IS GOING TO PUSH
HER, TOO.
AND PART OF THAT IS A FAIR
ANSWER, THERE ARE A LOT OF
QUESTIONS THEY DON'T KNOW.
I MEAN, G.M. HAS AMASSED ABOUT
6 MILLION PAGES OF RECORDS IN
THIS INVESTIGATION, BUT A PART
OF IT IS STILL GETTING TO THE
BOTTOM OF HOW FAR UP THE CHAIN
DO THESE DECISIONS GET MADE?
WAS THIS A LOW-LEVEL DECISION BY
ENGINEERS TO NOT FIX THIS, YOU
KNOW, FOR WHAT WAS A VERY SMALL
AMOUNT OF MONEY?
OR DID IT GO MUCH HIGHER THAN
THAT?
>> Ifill: EXPLAIN ONE KEY
THING WHICH CAME UP TODAY WHICH
IS THIS POTENTIAL COVERUP, AT
LEAST THOSE WERE WORDS MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS USED, OF A SAFETY
PROBLEM FOUND IN 2006.
>> WELL, IN 2006, THE SWITCHES
THAT HAVE BEEN RECALLED OR
LINKED TO THE 13 DEATHS, THE
SWITCH WAS CHANGED TO A MUCH
IMPROVED SWITCH, BUT THE COMPANY
DID NOT CHANGE THE PART.
IN FACT, IT SHOWED IN THE
COMMITTEE THE RECORD FROM THE
ENGINEER THAT SIGNED OFF ON IT,
THEY DIDN'T CHANGE THE PART
NUMBER.
THAT'S VERY UNUSUAL BECAUSE YOU
WOULD WANT TO CHANGE THE PART,
BE ABLE TO TRACK HOW THE NEW
SWITCH IS PERFORMING VERSUS THE
OLD SWITCH AND IT WASN'T
ACTUALLY TILL LAST YEAR THAT AN
OUTSIDE ENGINEER FIGURED OUT
THIS PROBLEM BECAUSE THEY
COULDN'T UNDERSTAND WHY SOME
VEHICLES WERE SHOWING MUCH
HIGHER FAILURE RATES THAN
OTHERS, AND THAT IS A CENTRAL
QUESTION HERE, WHY DIDN'T G.M.
CHANGE THE PART NUMBER, WHY
DIDN'T THEY INFORM N.H.T.S.A.,
AND WAS THIS SOMETHING THAT THEY
WERE EAGER TO HIDE BY NOT MAKING
A CHANGE IN THE PART NUMBER.
>> Ifill: JOAN CLAYBROOK AS A
FORMER HEAD OF N.H.T.S.A. AND
SPEAKING ON BEHALF OF THE
FAMILIES AS THE VICTIM'S
FAMILIES, WERE YOU SATISFIED
WITH THE ANSWERS YOU HEARD?
>> NO.
I THINK THAT MARY BARRA SHOULD
HAVE BEEN MORE PREPARED TO GIVE
PARTICULAR ANSWERS.
GENERAL MOTORS HAS SUBMITTED
200,000 PAGES OF DOCUMENTS TO
THE COMMITTEES IN CONGRESS, AND
THEY'VE ALSO SUBMITTED A TIME
LINE, SEVERAL DIFFERENT
VERSIONS, THREE OR FOUR OF THEM,
I THINK, TO THE DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION.
SO SHE SHOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER
PREPARED, IN MY VIEW, TO GIVE
ANSWERS.
I THINK THAT SHE WANTS TO
RESERVE HER OPTIONS FOR HOW SHE
FRAMES THIS WHEN SHE GETS THE
WHOLE INVESTIGATION FINISHED
INSIDE GENERAL MOTORS.
>> Ifill: G.M. ANNOUNCED TODAY
THEY RETAINED KEN FEINBERG, THE
COMPENSATION SPECIALISTS, TO
SPEAK ABOUT HOW TO COMPENSATE
CERTAIN VICTIMS OF THE
PRE-BANKRUPTCY 2009.
SO IS THAT WHAT YOU THINK?
IS THAT HOW AN INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION SHOULD LOOK,
LOOKING IN TERMS OF
COMPENSATION?
>> WELL, THAT'S NOT THE INTERNAL
INVESTIGATION I WAS REFERRING
TO.
I'M REFERRING TO THE HIRING OF
AN OUTSIDE LAW FIRM TO DO AN
UNVARNISHED EVALUATION AS MARY
BARRA SAID OF WHAT HAPPENED AND
WHY IT HAPPENED AND WHO WAS
INVOLVED.
I THINK IT'S A VERY POSITIVE
MOVE TO HEAR THAT THEY HAVE
HIRED KEN FEINBERG BECAUSE
CONSUMER GROUPS ASKED MARY BARRA
IN A LETTER TO SET ASIDE A
$1 BILLION FUND TO COMPENSATE
OTHERS, PEOPLE WHO WERE INJURED
OR KILLED IN CRASHES THAT
OCCURRED BEFORE JULY 2009, WHICH
IS THE DATE OF THE BAILOUT.
WHAT HAPPENED IN THE BAILOUT, IT
WAS QUITE UNUSUAL, IN MY VIEW,
IS THAT THEY SAID ANY CRASH THAT
OCCURRED BEFORE THE BAILOUT IS
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE OLD
GENERAL MOTORS WHICH HAS NO
MONEY AND, THEREFORE, PEOPLE ARE
NOT GOING TO GET ANY MONEY, IN I
COMPENSATION FOR THEIR INJURIES.
>> Ifill: SO THERE'S A
LIABILITY PRE-2009, A LIABILITY
SHIELD?
>> THERE'S A LIABILITY SHIELD,
THAT'S RIGHT.
THE FACT THAT SHE'S NOW TALKING
ABOUT HAVING KEN FEINBERG LOOK
AT THIS AND SEE IF THERE'S A WA,
I THINK THAT'S A VERY POSITIVE
MOVE AND I HOPE THAT THAT
OCCURS.
>> Ifill: DAVID SHEPARDSON, I
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT THE
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION AS WELL, THEIR
ROLE, THEY WERE ALSO TESTIFYING
TODAY, THEY WERE ALSO PRESSED ON
THESE QUESTIONS.
DID LAWMAKERS SEEM TO BELIEVE
THAT THEY WERE ANY WAY CULPABLE
ON THESE?
>> THEY'RE REALLY BEARING DOWN
ON A DECISION THAT N.H.T.S.A.
MADE IN 2007.
ONE OF THEIR SENIOR
INVESTIGATORS SAID THERE WERE
REPORTS OF FOUR FATAL CRASHES IN
THESE NOW RECALLED COBALTS AND
ASKED HIS SUPERIORS TO OPEN A
FORMAL INVESTIGATION.
THE GOVERNMENT DID NOT DO THAT
AND, UNFORTUNATELY, IN TERMS OF
TIMING, ONE OF THESE SPECIAL
CRASH REPORTS CAME OUT EARLY THE
NEXT YEAR WHICH SHOWED THAT, IN
FACT, THE NON-DEPLOYMENT OF THE
AIR BAG WAS TIED TO THE FACT THE
KEY SLIPPED OUT OF POSITION, BUT
BY THE TIME THEY GOT THAT
REPORT, THE GOVERNMENT ALREADY
DECIDED NOT TO OPEN THAT
INVESTIGATION.
NOW, THE GOVERNMENT SAYS THE
DATA WAS NOT THERE AND, REALLY,
TRIED TO POINT THE FINGER BACK
AT G.M. SAYING, IF THEY'D HAD
MORE INFORMATION LIKE THE PART
CHANGE NUMBER, LIKE THE FACT
THAT, IN 2002, THE INITIAL PART,
THE SWITCH NEVER MET G.M.'S OWN
SPECIFICATIONS AND THEY TOLD THE
SUPPLIER GO AHEAD AND BUILD IT
ANYWAY.
SO THEY ARGUE, THE GOVERNMENT,
IF G.M. HAD PROVIDED MORE
INFORMATION THEY COULD HAVE MADE
A DIFFERENT DECISION.
THEY'RE NOT ADMITTING ANY
WRONGDOING AT THIS POINT.
>> Ifill: JOAN CLAYBROOK,
SHOULD THE GOVERNMENT HAVE HAD
MORE RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK GENERAL MOTORS BEARS THE
BASIC RESPONSIBILITY BECAUSE IT
BUILT AND DESIGNED AND SOLD AND
EVALUATED AND HAD A LOT OF
INFORMATION ABOUT THIS ERROR IN
THE IGNITION SWITCH.
BUT THE GOVERNMENT KEEPS SAYING
THEY DIDN'T HAVE ENOUGH DATA,
WHICH IS REALLY TERRIFICALLY
OUTRAGEOUS.
THE FACT IS IT'S A DESIGN
DEFECT.
THIS PROBLEM IS A DESIGN DEFECT
AND IF YOU HAVE A DESIGN DEFECT,
IT AFFECTS EVERY PART THAT WAS
MADE, AND THEY KNEW THAT THERE
WERE CRASHES THAT WERE CAUSED BY
THIS, BUT THERE WERE INJURIES
THAT RESULTED IN DEATH.
IT DIDN'T MATTER HOW MANY
CONSUMER COMPLAINTS OR WARRANTY
CLAIMS THEY HAD, THEY DID NOT
NEED ANY MORE DATA.
WHEN I WAS IN CHARGE OF THIS
AGENCY IN THE '70s, WE LOOKED
AT THINGS TO SEE WHETHER OR NOT
THERE WAS A DESIGN DEFECT AND,
IF THERE WAS, AND IF IT COULD
CAUSE HARM, AND IF THE PROBLEM
AROSE, THAT WAS ABSOLUTELY, PER
SE, A SAFETY DEFECT.
SO THEY'RE TREATING THIS WHOLE
THING AS THOUGH THEY HAVE TO
GATHER TONS AND TONS OF PAPER IN
ORDER TO MAKE A DECISION, AND I
THINK THAT THAT'S COMPLETELY
WRONG, AN IT'S A REAL FAILURE AT
THE AGENCY, AND I HOPE THAT THEY
WILL REVISE THIS, AND THERE'S A
LOT OF WORK GOING ON NOW TO TRY
TO PERSUADE THEM TO LOOK AT THIS
IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
>> Ifill: FOR THE RECORD, WE
DID INVITE REPRESENTATIVES FROM
G.M. TO APPEAR TONIGHT AND
DECLINED.
JOAN CLAYBROOK, JOA PRESIDENT
EMERITUS OF PUBLIC CITIZEN, AND
DAVID SHEPARDSON OF DETROIT
NEWS.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
BLVRN
>> Woodruff: A CLASSIFIED REPORT
BY THE SENATE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE ALLEGES THAT THE
C.I.A. MISLED THE GOVERNMENT AND
THE PUBLIC OVER ASPECTS OF IT'S
INTERROGATION PROGRAM FOR YEARS.
A "WASHINGTON POST" STORY TODAY
BASED ON INTERVIEWS WITH THOSE
WHO HAVE SEEN THE DOCUMENT SAYS
THAT THE C.I.A. CONCEALED
DETAILS ABOUT THE SEVERITY OF
ITS INTERROGATION METHODS,
OVERSTATED THE SIGNIFICANCE OF
PLOTS AND PRISONERS AND TOOK
CREDIT FOR PIECES OF
INTELLIGENCE THAT WERE ALREADY
OBTAINED FROM DETAINEES BEFORE
THEY WERE SUBJECTED TO HARSH
TECHNIQUES.
WE EXAMINE THE DETAILS NOW WITH
GREG MILLER OF THE WASHINGTON
POST.
GREG MILLER, WELCOME.
THE "NewsHour" RECEIVED A
STATEMENT FROM THE C.I.A. A
SHORT TIME AGO SAYING THEY ARE
NOT GOING TO RESPOND TO THIS
REPORT IN "THE WASHINGTON POST"
UNTIL THEY GET A FINAL COPY OF
THE STUDY FROM THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE.
HAVING SAID THAT, 6300-PAGE
REPORT, WHY WAS THE SENATE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
CONDUCTING THIS KIND OF STUDY OF
THE C.I.A.?
>> WELL, THIS ALL STARTED A
NUMBER OF YEARS AGO, NOW, AND
LAUNCHED LARGELY BECAUSE THERE
WAS A DEBATE AT THE OUTSET OF
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WHEN
OBAMA WAS DISMANTLING THIS
PROGRAM ABOUT WHETHER IT WORKED.
I MEAN, THERE WERE ALWAYS SORT
OF DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF
DEBATE ABOUT THIS PROGRAM -- WAS
IT MORAL, LEGAL, AND A QUESTION
OF WAS IT EFFECTIVE.
A LOT OF DEFENDERS OF THE
PROGRAM SAID AFTER 9/11 WE
DIDN'T HAVE A CHOICE BUT TO TAKE
EXTREME MEASURES, AND IT WORKED,
SAVED LIVES AND PREVENTED
ATTACKS.
SO SENATOR FEINSTEIN, THE
CHAIRMAN OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE, MADE IT A FIRST JOB
TO ZERO IN ON THE QUESTION, IS
IT TRUE?
DID IT WORK?
WHAT DID THE AGENCY'S OWN
RECORDS SAY ABOUT THAT?
>> Reporter:.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT WOULD YOU
SAY THE MAIN FINDINGS ARE HERE?
I KNOW THERE'S A LOT TO COVER,
BUT WHAT WOULD YOU SINGLE OUT?
>> I THINK THERE ARE TO.
ONE IS THEY SEE VERY LITTLE
EVIDENCE THE ENHANCED
TECHNIQUES -- WATER BOARDING,
SLEEP DEPRIVATION, THINGS LIKE
THAT -- DELIVERED ANY
SIGNIFICANT INTELLIGENCE IN THE
AFTERMATH OF 9/11.
IN FACT, MUCH OF THE BEST
INTELLIGENCE FROM PRISONERS WHO
WERE SUBJECTED TO THESE
TECHNIQUES CAME BEFORE THAT EVER
HAPPENED, IN OTHER WORDS WHEN
THEY WERE INITIALLY QUESTIONED
BEFORE THEY WERE SUBJECTED TO
THESE HARSH MEASURERS.
THE OTHER ONE I THINK IS THE
COMMITTEE CONCLUDES THAT THE
AGENCY WAS MISLEADING.
AGENCY OFFICIALS IN WASHINGTON
FREQUENTLY MISLED LAWMAKERS AND
OTHERS IN GOVERNMENT ABOUT THIS
PROGRAM AND WOULD CONFLATE THE
INTELLIGENCE THAT WAS GATHERED
FROM OTHER MEANS AND OTHER
SOURCES WITH WHAT IT GOT FROM
ENHANCED INTERROGATION.
>> Woodruff: KIND OF STUNNING,
ISN'T IT, THEY WOULD SAY THAT
THE KIND OF INTERROGATION THEY
WERE DOING DIDN'T PRODUCE
SIGNIFICANT RESULTS?
>> RIGHT, AND IT'S ADD ODDS WITH
THE ASSERTIONS OF SENIOR
OFFICIALS FROM FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT CHENEY AND FORMER
C.I.A. DIRECTORS ON DOWN, AND
THERE ARE A BIG CHUNK OF THIS
REPORT BY THE COMMITTEE LOOKS AT
ASSERTIONS LIKE THAT AND
COMPARES IT TO THE -- WHAT'S IN
THE CABLES, THE CLASSIFIED
CORRESPONDENCE AND
COMMUNICATIONS OF LOWER-LEVEL
C.I.A. EMPLOYEES DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN THE PROGRAM.
>> Woodruff: WE SHOULD POINT
OUT, GREG, YOUR STORY SAYS --
YOU SAY CURRENT AND FORMER
C.I.A. OFFICIALS DESCRIBE THIS
STUDY AS "MARRED" BY FACTUAL
ERRORS AND MISGUIDED
CONCLUSIONS.
YOU ALSO SAY C.I.A. VETERANS
ARGUE IT REFLECTS WHAT THEY CALL
F.B.I. BIASES, AND YOU POINT OUT
ONE OF THE PRINCIPLE AUTHORS OF
THE STUDY IS AN F.B.I. ANALYST.
SO TALK ABOUT THAT.
>> RIGHT, AND I MEAN THIS COULD
REIGNITE THIS LONG-STANDING FEUD
BETWEEN THE C.I.A. AND THE
F.B.I. BECAUSE F.B.I. OFFICIALS,
SOME OF THEM WERE AGAST THAT THE
AGENCY AND THE U.S. GOVERNMENT
WOULD EMBRACE THESE KINDS OF
METHODS, EVEN AFTER THE
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS AND HAVE
BEEN VERY CLEAR ABOUT THAT FOR A
LONG TIME.
AND, SO, THE FACT THAT ONE OF
THE PRINCIPAL AUTHORS OF THE
SENATE STUDY IS A FORMER F.B.I.
ANALYST AND THE COMMITTEE ALSO
LOOKED THROUGH F.B.I. DOCUMENTS
AND NOTES AND SO FORTH HAS
RAISED THAT SORT OF SUSPICION.
I THINK THE COMMITTEE WOULD SAY,
LOOK, THE BULK OF THIS REPORT IS
BASED ON C.I.A. DOCUMENTS.
THEY LOOKED AT MOREON CLASSIFIEA
AND RECORDS FROM WITHIN THE
AGENCY, AND THAT ACCOUNTED FOR
99-PLUS PERCENT OF THE MATERIAL
THAT THEY EXAMINED FOR THIS
INQUIRY.
>> Woodruff: BUT DO THESE
KINDS OF CONCERNS EXPRESSED BY
UNNAMED C.I.A. OFFICIALS
UNDERMINE IN SOME WAY THE
CREDIBILITY OF THE REPORT?
>> WELL, I MEAN, I THINK
THAT'S -- I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
SEE A LOT OF THAT GOING FORWARD
BECAUSE NONE OF THIS HAS BEEN
RELEASED PUBLICLY SO FAR.
AT BEST, WE'RE PROBABLY GOING TO
SEE AN EXECUTIVE SUMMARY THAT'S
SEVERAL HUNDRED PAGES LONG
RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC SEVERAL
WEEKS OR MONTHS AWAY, AND
THEY'RE ALREADY SORT OF
JOCKEYING OVER HOW THIS REPORT
IS GOING TO BE RECEIVED, SO
THERE WILL BE EFFORTS TO
DISCREDIT IT AND TO POINT OUT,
YOU KNOW, MAYBE THERE'S AN
F.B.I. BIAS HERE, THERE'S
CRITICISM OF THE COMMITTEE
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T INTERVIEW OR
SPEAK WITH ANY C.I.A. OFFICIALS,
IT'S BASED EXCLUSIVELY ON
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, SO YOU
WILL SEE THAT LINE OF ATTACK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS GOING TO
DETERMINE HOW MUCH OF THIS IS
RELEASED TO THE PUBLIC?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT COMES TO
THE WHITE HOUSE AND THE C.I.A.
AND THE BALL WILL BE IN THEIR
COURT SOON.
THE SENATE COMMITTEE IS SUPPOSED
TO VOTE THIS THURSDAY TO
TRANSMIT ITS EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
TO PRESIDENT OBAMA WHO HAS
ALREADY INDICATED THAT HE'S IN
FAVOR OF RELEASE AGO PORTION OF
THIS IF NOT ALL OF THAT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY, THEN IT GOES
TO THE AGENCY AND THEY HAVE TO
SCRUB IT FOR CLASSIFICATION
ISSUES.
SO, YOU KNOW, WE'LL HAVE TO
WATCH TO SEE HOW MUCH OF THIS
THEY LET GO.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF FOLKS
ARE BRACING THEMSELVES, I'M
SURE.
GREG MILLER, "WASHINGTON POST,"
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: TENS OF THOUSANDS OF
PARENTS IN NEW YORK CITY WILL
GET A CHANCE TO SEND THEIR
CHILDREN THIS FALL TO FREE FULL-
TIME PRE-KINDERGARTEN CLASSES,
THANKS TO A NEW $300 MILLION
STATE PROGRAM ANNOUNCED JOINTLY
BY NEW YORK GOVERNOR ANDREW
CUOMO AND CITY MAYOR BILL DE
BLASIO.
EDUCATORS HOPING TO EXPAND PRE-K
ON THE NATIONAL LEVEL ARE
KEEPING AN EYE ON COST, AND
QUALITY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT JOHN
TULENKO OF "LEARNING MATTERS"
HAS OUR REPORT.
>> THE PROBLEM IS WERE STILL NOT
REACHING ENOUGH KIDS, AND WERE
NOT REACHING THEM IN TIME AND
THAT HAS TO CHANGE.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT IS
TALKING ABOUT PRESCHOOL.
THIS YEAR, FEDERAL SPENDING ON
EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION, WHICH
HAD BEEN AROUND $7.5 BILLION ,
WILL INCREASE BY A BILLION MORE.
PRESCHOOL IS ALSO GETTING
ATTENTION FROM BIG CITY MAYORS,
INCLUDING NEW YORK CITY MAYOR,
BILL DE BLASIO.
>> WE MUST ACHIEVE THE TAX PLAN
I PUT FORWARD FOR FULL-DAY PRE-K
FOR EVERY CHILD IN THIS CITY.
>> Reporter: FLORIDA, OKLAHOMA,
WEST VIRGINIA AND GEORGIA
ALREADY OFFER PRESCHOOL TO
EVERYONE.
AND 30 GOVERNORS ARE PROPOSING
TO EXPAND IT IN THEIR STATES, SO
CHILDREN GET A BOOST.
>> KIDS DEVELOP BETTER COGNITIVE
SKILLS AND SUCCESS BREEDS
SUCCESS.
>> Reporter: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
PROFESSOR STEVE BARNETT HAS
DEVOTED HIS CAREER TO BETTER
UNDERSTANDING HOW PRESCHOOL
AFFECTS OUTCOMES FOR CHILDREN.
>> ITS NOT JUST ABOUT LEARNING
COLORS, AND SHAPES, AND LETTERS
AND NUMBERS, THOSE THINGS ARE
IMPORTANT, BUT IT'S ALSO
LEARNING ABOUT HOW TO CONTROL MY
OWN EMOTIONS, HOW TO GET ALONG
WITH OTHER PEOPLE.
AND SO YOU PUT ALL THAT TOGETHER
AND THOSE THINGS CAN PUT KIDS ON
A MUCH MORE SUCCESSFUL LIFE-PATH
THAN IF THEY DON'T HAVE THEM.
>> Reporter: BUT AS BARNETTS
RESEARCH HAS SHOWN, ALL THAT
DEPENDS ON HAVING QUALITY
PRESCHOOL PROGRAMS.
AND HE'S CONCERNED THAT IN SOME
STATES TODAY, THE MOST
POLITICIANS ARE DOING IS TALKING
UP A GOOD GAME.
>> MOST FOUR-YEAR-OLDS WHO GO TO
PRESCHOOL PROGRAMS, GO TO
PROGRAMS THAT AREN'T GOOD.
I THINK ITS A KIND OF BAIT AND
SWITCH.
IT'S EASY TO MAKE A COMMITMENT
AND NOT PUT ENOUGH MONEY BEHIND
IT.
AND IT'S VERY DIFFICULT FOR
PARENTS TO KNOW THAT THEIR STATE
IS NOT ACTUALLY DOING WHAT THEY
SAY THEY ARE.
>> Reporter: BARNETT WORRIES IN
PARTICULAR ABOUT CALIFORNIA,
TEXAS, AND FLORIDA.
>> THE STANDARDS ARE SO LOW; ITS
QUESTIONABLE WHETHER YOU SHOULD
CALL IT PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: WHAT DOES IT LOOK
LIKE?
>> YOU HAVE A TEACHER WIT
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIREMENTS.
NO LIMIT ON CLASS SIZES OR
RATIOS.
STATES PAY $2,300 A CHILD, WHICH
IS LESS THAN A QUARTER WHAT
KINDERGARTEN COSTS.
THAN BABYSITTING.
>> Reporter: 10 STATES,
DON'T EVEN OFFER THAT: THEY HAVE
NO PUBLIC PRESCHOOL.
AMONG THE OTHERS,
27 MAKE IT FREE ONLY TO AMILFIES
NEAR OR BELOW THE POVERTY LINE.
THAT HELPS EXPLAIN WHY
PUBLIC PRESCHOOLS ENROLL ONLY
ABOUT A QUARTER OF THE NATIONS
EIGHT MILLION THREE-AND-FOUR-
YEAR-OLDS.
A FEW OF THOSE LUCKY CHILDREN GO
TO THIS PRESCHOOL CENTER IN
PERTH AMBOY, NEW JERSEY.
HERE, PRESCHOOL IS FREE,
REGARDLESS OF INCOME.
JERI MAST IS THE DIRECTOR.
>> WE ARE TEACHI EVNGERYTHING,
THE LANGUAGE, THE LITERACY, THE
MATH, SO THAT THEY'RE MORE
ACADEMICALLY PREPARED
FOR SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: CHILDREN CAN BE
HERE FROM SEVEN IN THE MORNING
UNTIL SIX AT NIGHT, GETTING MORE
THAN ACADEMICS.
>> MOST CHILDREN IN OUR SCHOOLS
WILL GET OF THEIR FOOD INTAKE
HERE AT SCHOOL.
WE CAN GET KIDS COATS AND HATS,.
WERE A FULL SERVICE OPERATION.
>> Reporter: CLASSES HERE ARE
SMALL: ONE FULLY LICENSED
TEACHER AND AN AIDE FOR EVERY
FIFTEEN CHILDREN.
THE CENTER HAS A WELL-EQUIPPED
PLAYROOM, TECHNOLOGY AND OTHER
EXTRAS.
ALL THIS COSTS ABOUT $13,000 PER
CHILD PER YEAR, MONEY PERTH
AMBOY GETS FROM A CLASS
ACTION LAWSUIT T FIILED SEVERAL
YEARS AGO AGAINST THE STATE OF
NEW JERSEY.
THE REST OF THE COUNTRY WILL
HAVE TO FIND OTHER WAYS TO PAY
FOR PRESCHOOL.
WHERE WILL THE MONEY COME FROM
FOR THAT?
>> IT COMES OUT OF GENERAL
REVENUES.
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT IT
BEING EXPENSIVE, ITS NOT A LOT
OMONEF Y.
THE FEDERAL TAX BREAK THAT
ALLOWS HEDGE FUND MANAGERS TO
PAY 15% INCOME TAX BASICALLY,
COSTS $83 BILLION A YEAR.
WE COULD PROVIDE PRESCHOOL TO
ALL OUR KIDS FOR FAR LESS MONEY
THAN THAT.
>> Reporter: LAST YEAR,
PRESIDENT OBAMA ASKED FOR $75
BILLION, FUNDED BY A PROPOSED
FEDERAL TAX ON CIGARETTES, TO
ROUGHLY DOUBLE THE NUMBER OF
CHILDREN IN PRESCHOOL
OVER THE NEXT DECADE.
LAWMAKERS REJECTED IT.
>> WE SHOULDN'T JUST BE GRABBING
NEW IDEAS AND CREATING NEW
PROGRAMS AND ADDING TO THE DT.EB
>> Reporter: OPPONENTS INCLUDED
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN JOHN
KLINE, WHO DID VOTE YES ON THE
FAR MORE MODEST, $1 BILLION
INCREASE IN FEDERAL FUNDS FOR
PRESCHOOL, AS PART OF THE BUDGET
THAT PASSED IN JANUARY.
>> WE'D LIKE TO SEE PRESCHOOL
THAT WORK BECAUSE THERE IS
GROWING EVIDENCE AND ITS
RECOGNIZED ON BOTH
SIDES OF THE AISLE THAT EARLY
CHILDHOOD LEARNING IS
WORTHWHILE, BUT LET'S NOT JUST
GRAB A NEW PROGRAM AND START
TRYING TO FUND IT.
>> Reporter: BUT PRESCHOOL MIGHT
ACTUALLY SAVE TAXPAYERS MONEY,
ACCORDING TO STEVE BARNETT.
THEY NEED FAR LESS SPECIAL
EDUCATION.
THEY'RE FAR LESS LIKELY TO FAIL
AND REPEAT.
YOU ADD ALL THAT UP AND THAT'S
GOING TO OUTWEIGH THE COST OF
THE PRESCHOOL PROGRAM, BY
ITSELF.
>> Reporter: AND, HE SAYS,
THAT'S JUST THE START OF THE
SAVINGS.
>> THE BIG PART COMES LATER ON
BECAUSE KIDS ARE LESS INVOLVED
IN CRIME, DELINQUENCY.
THEY'RE MORE PRODUCTIVE IN THE
WORKFORCE, THEY HAVE LOWER
HEALTH-CARE COSTS, THOSE ARE THE
BIG LONG-TERM SAVINGS.
>> Reporter: BUT CRITICS ARGUE
THE LONG-TERM GAINS REST ON THIN
EVIDENCE.
AND SHORT-TERM GAINS HAVE COME
UNDER SCRUTINY TOO.
>> KIDS ARE REALLY NOT READY FOR
SCHOOL AND YOU KNOW THERE'S A
FAMOUS STUDY THAT SAYS BY THE
TIME YOU GET TO THIRD GRADE, IT
DOESN'T MATTER ANYWAY.
>> Reporter: KLINES REFERRING TO
A 2012 STUDY OF HEADSTART, THE
FEDERAL PRESCHOOL PROGRAM.
IT FOUND CHILDREN'S EARLY GAINS
IN LANGUAGE AND READING HAD
VIRTUALLY DISAPPEARED BY
THE END OF THIRD GRADE.
THE REASON FOR THAT, THE AUTHORS
SAY, IS THAT MANY CHILDREN WHO
DIDN'T GO TO PRESCHOOL QUICKLY
CATCH-UP.'S ALSO POSSIBLE THE
CHILDREN WHO DID GO ARE
SLOWING DOWN.
WITH OVERCROWDED CLASSES AND
FEWER SUPPORT STAFF, THE
LINGERING AFFECTS OF THE
RECESSION, INSTRUCTIONAL QUALITY
IN MANY ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS HAS
SUFFERED.
>> IT'S LIKE A RELAY RACE.
YOU CANT SAY I RAN A REALLY GOOD
1ST LAP SO NOW I CAN WALK THE
NEXT ONE.
YOU'RE GOING TO LOSE THE RACE IS
YOU DO THAT.
WELL, PRESCHOOL IS THE SAME WAY,
ITS A REALLY GOOD FIRST LAP, YOU
HAVE TO KEEP RUNNING HARD.
>> Reporter: BARNETT HOP THE
IMPROVING ECONOMY, AND BI-
PARTISAN SUPPORT IN MANY PLACES,
WILL KEEP UP THE MOMENTUM AND
PUBLIC MONIES FOR HIGH QUALITY
PRESCHOOL AND BEYOND.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO
SYRIA, WHERE THREE YEARS OF
CIVIL WAR HAVE LEFT MORE THAN
140,000 PEOPLE DEAD.
THE CITY OF HOMS WAS ONCE SEEN
AS THE CAPITAL OF THE
REVOLUTION.
NOW, IT'S MOSTLY CONTROLLED BY
ASSAD GOVERNMENT FORCES
WE TAKE A LOOK INSIDE THE
BESIEGED CITY, WITH A REPORT
FROM LINDSEY HILSUM OF
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS.
>> EVERYONE'S A SUSPECT.
SO THE SOLDIER'S SEARCH EACH CAR
BEFORE LETTING IT THROUGH.
THERE'S NOT MUCH BEAUTY NEAR THE
FRONTLINE IN HOMS.
MAYBE THAT'S WHY THEY'VE
DECORATED THEIR CHECKPOINT
BARRIER.
THE LEFT TENNANT WALKED ME
THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD OF BAB
SPARR.
HE DIDN'T WANT TO SHOW HIS FACE.
THE LAST BATTLE, HE TOLD ME,
WILL BE VERY SOON.
THEY'RE READY FOR IT.
THE SOLDIERS SAY THAT THIS IS AS
FAR AS WE CAN COME, THE
FRONTLINE IS JUST BEYOND THOSE
BUILDINGS, LESS THAN 50 YARDS
AWAY.
IT'S QUIET NOW DURING THE
DAYTIME BUT THERE'S STILL
FIGHTING EVERY NIGHT.
WHAT THE SOLDIERS SAY IS THE
UNITED NATIONS HAS TAKEN THE
CIVILIANS OUT, IT'S ONLY
FIGHTERS IN THERE SO THEY WANT
TO GO IN AND FINISH THE JOB.
TODAY THE SOLDIERS ARE RELAXING,
THEY SEEM PRETTY CONFIDENT.
TWO YEARS AGO GOVERNMENT FORCES
PUMMELED REBEL HELD SUBURBS IN
HOMS WITH ARTILLERY.
THEN THEY STARVED THEM OUT, WHEN
THE U.N. EVACUATED CIVILIANS
FROM OLD HOMS IN FEBRUARY SCORES
OF HUNGRY REBEL FIGHTERS CAME
TOO.
LESS THAN A THOUSAND ARE
BELIEVED TO BE HOLDING OUT.
>> ( translated ): THE BEST
THING IS IF THEY GIVE UP THEIR
WEAPONS AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF
THE AMNESTY.
IF THEY SURRENDER THEIR WEAPONS,
THEY CAN RETURN TO NORMAL LIFE.
>> Reporter: IN A CENTRE FOR
DISPLACED PEOPLE, I MET REBELS
WHO'VE SURRENDERED.
IN OTHER CITIES SIMILAR YOUNG
MEN DISAPPEARED INTO PRESIDENT
ASSAD'S JAILS.
BUT IN HOMS, THE AUTHORITIES SAY
THEY'LL BE FREED AFTER CHECKING
THEIR CRIMINAL RECORDS.
WITH SOLDIERS LISTENING NO ONE
WAS GOING TO CRITICIZE THE
GOVERNMENT.
BUT THERE'S NO DOUBT THEY'RE
WEARY OF WAR.
>> ( translated ): IN THE
BEGINNING, WE ASKED FOR SIMPLE
JUSTICE.
THINGS EVERYONE SHOULD HAVE.
BUT THEN IT BECAME SOMETHING
MUCH BIGGER, AND THEY BROUGHT
HEAVY WEAPONS AND WHEN
FOREIGNERS INTERVENED THEY
STARTED TO PLAY OFF ONERELIGIOUE
OTHER.
>> Reporter: A MILE OR SO AWAY,
ON AL HADARA OR CIVILIZATION
STREET, YOU WOULDN'T EVEN KNOW
THERE WAS A WAR ON.
THE REBELS NEVER MADE ANY
INROADS INTO THIS AREA WHERE
MOST PEOPLE ARE FROM PRESIDENT
ASSAD'S ALAWITE SECT.
BUT IN BABR AMR, A SUNNI QUARTER
WHICH REBELS CONTROLLED FOR TWO
YEARS, GOVERNMENT FORCES SHOWED
NO MERCY.
NO-ONE KNOWS HOW MANY LOST THEIR
LIVES HERE, CIVILIANS AND
FIGHTERS ALIKE LIVING MONTH
AFTER MONTH UNDER CONSTANT
BOMBARDMENT.
A FEW PEOPLE HAVE RETURNED TO
START AGAIN.
GROWING THEIR OWN FOOD BECAUSE
EVERYONE'S BEEN IMPOVERISHED.
THE KIDS ARE HARD AT WORK, THEY
LOST A BROTHER IN THE BOMBING,
THEIR FATHER'S BEEN MISSING FOR
EIGHT MONTHS, THEIR MOTHER'S
STRUGGLING TO LOOK AFTER THEM.
>> ( translated ): I SWEAR TO
GOD WE'RE CRYING EVERYDAY ABOUT
THE EMPTY HOUSES AND THE PEOPLE
WHO FLED.
WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY ARE.
I PRAY TO GOD WE CAN RETURN TO
THE WAY THINGS WERE BEFORE.
>> Reporter: HOW TO MAKE A
LIVING?
IBRAHIM JUMA USED TO GET TEN
CUSTOMERS A DAY AT HIS BICYCLE
REPAIR SHOP, NOW HE'S LUCKY TO
GET TWO.
>> ( translated ): THERE'S
SADNESS EVERYWHERE, A BAD
FEELING, A SENSE OF LOSS BECAUSE
WE USED TO SEE OUR NEIGHBORS IN
THE MORNING BUT NOW WE DON'T.
IT'S SAD, WE DON'T KNOW WHERE
THEYRE. A
OUR NEIGHBORS WERE LIKE OUR
BROTHERS AND I MISS THEM.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNMENT
BELIEVES IT'S WON IN HOMS AND
MUST FIGHT NOT NEGOTIATE TO WIN
ELSEWHERE.
THIS THEN IS THE FACE OF VICTORY
IN SYRIA.
RUINED CITIES, RUINED LIVES, AND
THE PROSPECT OF MANY MORE YEARS
OF CONFLICT TO COME.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE HAVE A
REPORT ON THE LATEST NUMBERS OF
THE DEATH TOLL FROM SYRIA'S
CIVIL WAR.
A BRITISH MONITORING GROUP FOUND
DESPITE OFFICIAL COUNTS, THE
ACTUAL TOLL WAS LIKELY CLOSER TO
220,000 PEOPLE KILLED IN THE
LAST THREE YEARS.
THAT'S ON OUR RUNDOWN.
>> Woodruff: THE FATE OF U.S.
LED PEACE NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN
ISRAEL AND THE PALESTINIANS HIT
NEW HURDLES TODAY, AND THE VERY
FUTURE OF THE TALKS MIGHT BE IN
JEOPARDY.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY HAD BEEN ALL SET TO
RESUME HIS MIDDLE EAST SHUTTLE
DIPLOMACY, AMID TALK OF POSSIBLE
PROGRESS.
THEN CAME WORD FROM PALESTINIAN
PRESIDENT MAHMOUD ABBAS THAT
HE'S RESUMING A CAMPAIGN FOR
U.N. RECOGNITION.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL APPLY
TO 15 AGENCIES AND CONVENTIONS
IMMEDIATELY.
>> Woodruff: ABBAS BLAMED ISRAEL
FOR STALLING AN AGREED-UPON
RELEASE OF PALESTINIAN
PRISONERS.
THE LAST OF 104 PRISONERS WERE
TO HAVE BEEN FREED IN MARCH.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE BEEN
PROMISED NINE TIMES THAT THE
FOURTH BATCH OF PRISONERS WOULD
BE RELEASED.
THIS AFTERNOON WAS THE LATEST
PROMISE THAT THE ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT WOULD BE CONVENING TO
APPROVE THAT.
THIS DID NOT HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: WITH THAT, KERRY
CANCELED A RETURN VISIT TO THE
REGION, SCHEDULED FOR TOMORROW.
HE SPOKE AT N.A.T.O.
HEADQUARTERS IN BRUSSELS.
>> THIS IS A MOMENT TO BE CLEAR-
EYED AND SOBER ABOUT PROCESS.
IT'S DIFFICULT AND EMOTIONAL.
ALL I CAN TELL YOU IS WE ARE
CONTINUING EVEN NOW TO BE ENGAGE
WITH BOTH PARTIES TO FIND BEST
WAY FORWARD.
>> Reporter: EARLIER, IT HAD
BEEN WIDELY REPORTED THE U.S.
WAS WORKING TO WIN THE RELEASE
OF THOSE PALESTINIAN PRISONERS.
THE PROSPECTIVE AGREEMENT DID
NOT INCLUDE A FREEZE ON ISRAELI
SETTLEMENT EXPANSION, LONG A
DEMAND OF THE U.S. AND
PALESTINIANS.
INSTEAD, IT REPORTEDLY INVOLVED
THE POSSIBLE RELEASE FROM PRISON
OF AMERICAN JONATHAN POLLARD.
THE U.S. NAVY INTELLIGENCE
ANALYST WAS CONVICTED OF SPYING
FOR ISRAEL ALMOST 30 YEARS AGO,
AND IS STILL SERVING A LIFE
SENTENCE.
SUCCESSIVE ISRAELI GOVERNMENTS
HAVE ECHOED STRONG PUBLIC
SENTIMENT THERE IN ASKING FOR
HIS RELEASE.
>> Reporter: POLLARD WAS
INTERVIEWED BY ISRAELI
TELEVISION IN 1998, AFTER ISRAEL
ACKNOWLEDGED HE'D BEEN SPYING,
AND GRANTED HIM CITIZENSHIP.
>> FOR ISRAEL TO HAVE ADMITTED
THAT I WAS AN AGENT, WAS A
PRECONDITION FOR AN EQUITABLE
RESOLUTION OF MY AFFAIR.
>> Reporter: POLLARD WAIVED A
PAROLE HEARING SCHEDULED FOR
TODAY ACCORDING TO PRISON
OFFICIALS, AS DIPLOMATIC
WRANGLING CONTINUED.
EARLIER, WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY SAID
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAD MADE NO
DECISION TO RELEASE POLLARD.
BUT HE DID NOT RULE IT OUT.
>> THE NEED FOR AND BENEFITS OF
A PEACE BETWEEN THE ISRAELIS AND
THE PALESTINIANS, A PEACE THAT
PROVIDES THE PALESTINIANS WITH
THEIR OWN STATE AND PROVIDES
SECURITY TO A DEMOCRATIC, JEWISH
STATE OF ISRAEL TRANSCEND THIS
ISSUE AND MANY OTHERS THAT ARE
PART OF THE DISCUSSIONS THAT WE
HAVE.
>> Reporter: SECRETARY KERRY HAD
HOPED TO HAVE A FRAMEWORK PEACE
AGREEMENT BY THE END OF THIS
NOW, IF A DEAL CAN BE SALVAGED,
IT MIGHT SIMPLY ENSURE THAT
PEACE TALKS CONTINUE INTO NEXT
YEAR.
>> Woodruff: JOINING US NOW TO
DISCUSS ALL OF THE LATEST
DEVELOPMENTS AND THE PROSPECTS
FOR CONTINUING THE TALKS ARE:
AARON DAVID MILLER, A FORMER
SENIOR STATE DEPARTMENT ADVISOR
ON ARAB-ISRAELI NEGOTIATIONS.
HE'S NOW A SCHOLAR AT THE
WOODROW WILSON CENTER.
SHIBLEY TELHAMI IS THE ANWAR
SADAT PROFESSOR OF PEACE AND
DEVELOPMENT AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
MARYLAND AND A SENIOR FELLOW AT
THE BROOKINGS INSTITUTION.
AND DAVID POLLOCK, A FORMER
SENIOR ADVISOR ON THE MIDDLE
EAST AT THE STATE DEPARTMENT.
AND NOW A VISITING FELLOW AT THE
WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR
EAST POLICY
WELCOME TO THE "NewsHour" TO
ALL THREE OF YOU.
>> PLEASURE.
SHIBLEY TELHAMI, LET ME START
WITH YOU.
WHY IS TODAY MAHMOUD ABBAS
SAYING HE'S GOING TO GO TO THE
U.N. SEEKING RECOGNITION FOR THE
PALESTINIANS.
WHY NOW AND WHY ARE THE ISRAELIS
SO OPPOSED?
>> PROBABLY TWO ISSUES.
ONE, IF YOU LOOK AT IT FROM HIS
POINT OF VIEW AND HIS
CONSTITUENTS POINT OF VIEW, HE'S
BEING ASKED TO EXTEND
NEGOTIATIONS WITHOUT GETTING
RUTS, SOMETHING HE SAID HE
WOULDN'T DO.
HE NEEDS TO LOOK TOUGH TO
CONSTITUENTS.
IT IN SOME WAYS MAKES IT EASIER
FOR HIM TO AGREE TOMORROW OR THE
NEXT DAY TO EXTEND THE
NEGOTIATIONS, BUT THE SECOND
THING IS, PALESTINIANS ALWAYS
FEEL LIKE THEY'RE BEING TAKEN
FOR GRANTED.
THERE'S AN ASYMMETRY OF POWER
FAVORING ISRAEL, AND IN THIS
CASE THERE WAS THE RECENT
PRISONER WHICH HAD BEEN AGREED
UPON FROM THE BEGINNING.
IT'S INTERESTING.
THERE'S A LITTLE SYMMETRY HERE
BECAUSE WHEN SECRETARY KERRY
ASKED BOTH SIDES TO COME TO THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE, HE ASKED FOR
GESTURES.
ISRAELI MADE THE GESTURE ON
PRISONERS.
PALESTINIANS MADE THE GESTURE OF
NOT GOING TO INTERNATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS TO ESSENTIALLY FAIL
CASES ON ISRAEL.
NOT THAT THE ISRAELIS ARE NOT
FULFILLING THEIR PART OF THE
PRISONER RELEASE, THE
PALESTINIANS FEEL THEY HAVE ONE
LITTLE LEVER THAT THEY CAN SEND
A SIGNAL THEY HAVE SOMETHING TO
GO BACK ON.
>> Woodruff: AARON DAVID
MILLER, HOW DO YOU READ WHAT HE
DID?
>> MONEY IS BETTING ON ISRAELI
PIECE.
JOHN KERRY WENT INTO A
SEMIOMISSION IMPOSSIBLE IN A
PROCESS WHERE THERE WERE GAPS ON
ALL THE CORE ISSUES VERY DEEP.
AND THERE'S AN ABSENCE OF
URGENCY AND OWNERSHIP.
ABBAS FINDS HIMSELF IN A
POSITION WHERE NOT ONLY ARE THE
APPETIZERS OFF THE TABLE -- THAT
IS TO SAY THE FOURTH TRANCHE OF
PRISONER RELEASES -- THE
PROSPECTS OF ACTUALLY EATING THE
MAIN COURSE, A FRAMEWORK
AGREEMENT BY THE END OF APRIL OR
EVEN THE END OF 2014, SEEMS
ACTUALLY QUITE DUBIOUS.
AND MY OWN CONVICTION IS, YOU
KNOW, IT'S LIKE ROCK AND ROLL.
IT'S   NEVER GOING TO DIE, BUT
THIS PROCESS RIGHT NOW IS COMING
TO A CRITICAL MOMENT BECAUSE, IF
PEOPLE ABANDON THE FAITH THAT
TALKING CAN GET THEM WHAT THEY
WANT, THEN THE OBVIOUS
IMPLICATIONS AND CONSEQUENCES
ARE PROHIBITIVE.
>> Woodruff: I SHOULD SAY,
COMING TO YOU, DAVID POLLOCK,
SECRETARY KERRY SAID, AFTER
PRESIDENT ABBAS MADE THIS MOVE,
HE SAID IT'S COMPLETELY
PREMATURE TO WRITE OFF THE
PROCESS, SAID THE PARTIES ARE IN
TOUCH WITH EACH OTHER AND WILL
CONTINUE B BUT HOW DO YOU READ
THIS PARTICULAR DEVELOPMENT BY
PRESIDENT ABBAS?
>> I THINK IT IS PREMATURE TO
WRITE IT OFF.
I THINK THEY WILL FIND A WAY AT
THE LAST MINUTE TO RESUSCITATE
AT LEAST THE TALKS.
NOT AN AGREEMENT, BUT AN
AGREEMENT TO TALK.
I THINK WHAT ABBAS IS TRYING TO
DO HERE IS TO INSIST THAT THE
PRE-CONDITIONS FOR EVEN SITTING
DOWN AT THE TABLE BE FULFILLED,
AND I THINK HE IS RESPONDING TO
AND ISRAELI DECISION TO DELAY A
PRISONER RELEASE BUT THERE'S
ALSO A COMPLICATED TECHNICAL
ISSUE ABOUT WHICH PRISONERS
EXACTLY WILL ISRAEL AGREE TO
RELEASE.
THE ISRAELIS SAY THAT THEY DID
NOT AGREE TO RELEASE PALESTINIAN
CITIZENS OF ISRAEL AS PART OF
THE PRE-CONDITIONS FOR THESE
PEACE TALKS, AND ABBAS IS
INSISTING THEY DO EXACTLY THAT.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING HE
DID THIS BECAUSE THIS IS ONE
PIECE OF LEVERAGE?
>> I THINK HE'S USING IT AS
LEVERAGE, BUT HE'S TRYING TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT HE, TOO, HAS AN
ALTERNATIVE IN CASE THE PROCESS
DOES FAIL, NOT JUST TO GET TALKS
STARTED BUT TO SHOWTH
PLAN B FOR THE PALESTINIANS.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
ANOTHER INTERESTING PIECE IN ALL
OF THIS, THE DISCLOSURE A FEW
DAYS AGO THAT -- OR THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT, SHIBLEY
TELHAMI, THAT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION IS CONSIDERING
THE RELEASE OF JONATHAN POLLARD.
>> THAT'S --
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU READ
THAT?
>> THAT CAME AS A SURPRISE TO
ME, IN PART, YOU KNOW, BECAUSE
NOT EVERY WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN
RELUCTANT TO DO SO FOR OVER 20
YEARS.
THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCIES
OF THE U.S. ARE OPPOSED TO IT.
THEY SEE IT AS A TRAITOR WHO HAS
BETRAYED AMERICA AND THE U.S.
HAS PAID A PRICE.
THEY DIDN'T WANT TO LINK HIM TO
NEGOTIATIONS IN THE PEACE
PROCESS.
I ALWAYS FELT THAT HE COULD BE
USED AS A CARD, BUT ONLY WHEN
THERE IS A REAL MAJOR CRISIS,
BECAUSE IT'S A BIG PRICE
POLITICALLY FOR THE PRESIDENT,
OR AT LEAST INTERNALLY, NOT SO
MUCH POLITICALLY, BUT MORE
WITHIN THE NATIONAL SECURITY
BUREAUCRACIES, AND I THINK THAT
THE FACT THAT THEY APPEAR TO BE
CONSIDERING IT, MAYBE EVEN USING
IT, TELLS YOU THAT THERE WAS A
REAL CRISIS.
I THINK IT TELLS YOU SOMETHING
ABOUT HOW ATSTY LED THE IMMEDIAE
SITUATION THERE, THAT HE NEEDED
TO USE THIS PARTICULAR CARD NOW.
>> Woodruff: AARON DAVID
MILLER, YOU'VE WRITTEN YOU THINK
IT'S A TERRIBLE IDEA.
>> I DO.
I THINK THAT, LOOK, IF YOU'RE
GOING TO TELL ME THAT WE'RE
PREPARED TO RELEASE JONATHAN
POLLARD, AT LEAST UP FOR PAROLE
IN 2015, FOR SOMETHING
SIGNIFICANT AND CONSEQUENTIAL,
AN AGREEMENT ON BORDERS FOR
RELEASING POLLARD, FINE.
AT THE END OF THE ROAD POLLARD
WILL BE THROWN INTO THE DEAL.
THE PALESTINIANS HAVE THEIR OWN
BENEFITS AND SOMETHING THE
ISRAELIS WANT, FINE, BUT TO
TRADE JONATHAN POLLARD FOR
EXTENSION OF THE TALKS OR
SETTLEMENT FREEZE THAT WILL BE
OBSERVED MORE IN THE BREACH OR
PRACTICE, MAKES IT LOOK WEAK AND
DESPERATE.
IT'S A BAD IDEA, UNWISE, MAKES A
MIRACLE LOOK BAD AND WON'T
ADVANCED IT.
>> Woodruff: YOU BELIEVE THERE
ARE NO CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH
HE SHOULD BE RELEASED?
>> IF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES MAKES A JUDGMENT
THAT JONATHAN POLLARD, ILL,
MENTALLY UNWELL, HAVING SERVED A
LONG TIME WANTS TO BE RELEASED
ON HUMANITARIAN GROUNDS, DO IT,
BUT DON'T CONFLICT IT WITH PEACE
AND UNDERMINE THE INTELLIGENCE
IN THE PROCESS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT IT?
I THINK IF THERE'S A
HUMANITARIAN REASON TO RELEASE
JONATHAN POLLARD, IT MAKES SENSE
FOR THE UNITED STATES TO GET
SOMETHING FOR IT ON TOP OF THAT
AND TO USE THIS CARD, WHICH IS A
WASTING ASSET BECAUSEL BECAUSE S
ELIGIBLE FOR RELEASE WITHIN THE
NEXT YEAR OR SO ANYWAY, AND IS
ILL.
SO I THINK IT MAKES SENSE, IF
THE UNITED STATES HAS ENOUGH
LEGAL GROUNDS TO DO THIS, IF THE
PRESIDENT DECIDES THAT IT'S OKAY
AFTER HAVING SERVED SO LONG IN
PRISON FOR A VERY SERIOUS CRIME,
THEN WE SHOULD ALSO PLAY THE
CARD FOR SOMETHING THAT'S WORTH
DOING, WHICH IS PRESERVING THE
PEACE TALKS.
>> Woodruff: JUST TO KEEP THE
TALKS GOING, YOU WOULD SAY
THAT --
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BECAUSE I THINK THEY CAN DO IT
WITHOUT THIS.
>> I DON'T AGREE.
I THINK IF YOU'RE GOING TO GET
SOMETHING FOR POLLARD, GET
SOMETHING CONSEQUENTIAL AND
SIGNIFICANT.
EXTENSION OF TALKS WHICH FAIL TO
CLOSE THE GAPS ON CORE ISSUES IS
GOING TO SIMPLY PROLONG THE
PROBLEM THAT WE FACE AND, TWO OR
THREE MONTHS FROM NOW, HE WILL
ASK FOR SOMETHING ELSE WITHOUT
SUFFICIENT PROGRESS.
>> Woodruff: BRIEFLY.
ON THIS ISSUE, IF YOU ARE
GETTING A REAL TOTAL SETTLEMENT
FREEZE, THAT'S ONE THING BECAUSE
THAT WOULD MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO
HAVE REAL NEGOTIATIONS, BUT IF
YOU'RE ONLY GETTING SOME
"RESTRAINT" AND SETTLEMENT GOES
ON, IT'S TOO H HEAVY A PRICE TO
PAY.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU ALL
THREE, AARON DAVID MILLER,
SHIBLEY TELHAMI AND DAVID
POLLOCK.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE OTHER MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED THAT
7.1 MILLION PEOPLE SIGNED UP FOR
HEALTH INSURANCE, BEFORE LAST
NIGHT'S DEADLINE.
AND LAWMAKERS PRESSED GENERAL
MOTORS' NEW C.E.O. MARY BARRA ON
WHY THE AUTOMAKER TOOK TEN YEARS
TO RECALL VEHICLES WITH FAULTY
IGNITION SWITCHES.
SHE VOWED IT WON'T HAPPEN AGAIN.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, MANY AMERICANS
DREAM OF RETIRING TO THE SUNBELT
WHERE THEY CAN ENJOY THEIR WORK-
FREE YEARS ON THE GOLF COURSE OR
IN THE SWIMMING POOL.
BUT FINANCIALLY, SENIORS MAY
WANT TO CONSIDER TRADING THEIR
SUNGLASSES FOR MITTENS AND HEAD
TO ALASKA, BASED ON DATA FROM
THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON
RETIREMENT SECURITY.
SEE WHERE YOUR STATE RANKS FOR
OVERALL FINANCIAL SECURITY FOR
SENIORS.
EXPLORE AN INTERACTIVE MAP ON
OUR HEALTH PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, JUDY HAS AN
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH
CHRISTINE LAGARDE, HEAD OF THE
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND, ON
UKRAINE, RUSSIA AND MORE.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF, WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE,
AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE P.B.S.
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.